# References

## Configuration options

### Environment variables

* `ENABLE_CORE_DUMP`: Controls whether a core dump file is created in the event
of a crash. Allowed values are true and false. The default is false.

* `ROX_ENABLE_AFTERGLOW`: Allows to enable afterglow functionality to reduce
networking usage. See the corresponding [Afterglow](design-overview.md#Afterglow)
section for more details. The default is true.

* `ROX_COLLECTOR_SET_CURL_VERBOSE`: Sets verbose mode and debug callback for
curl, when loading kernel objects. The default is false.

* `ROX_NETWORK_DROP_IGNORED`: Ignore connections with configured protocol and
port pairs (at the moment only `udp/9`). The default is true.

* `ROX_NETWORK_GRAPH_PORTS`: Controls whether to retrieve TCP listening
sockets, while reading connection information from procfs. The default is true.

* `ROX_COLLECTOR_DISABLE_NETWORK_FLOWS`: Allows to disable processing of
network system call events and reading of connection information from procfs.
Mainly used in case of network-related performance degradation. The default is
false.

* `ROX_PROCESSES_LISTENING_ON_PORT`: Instructs Collector to add information
about the originator process on all network listening-endpoint objects.
The default is false.

* `ROX_COLLECT_CONNECTION_STATUS`: Instruct Collector to track the network
connections status. With this enabled, advertising of asynchronous connections
will be postponed until their status is known and they are successful.
The default is true.

NOTE: Using environment variables is a preferred way of configuring Collector,
so if you're adding a new configuration knob, keep this in mind.

### Collector config

Collector configuration could be passed via `--collector-config` argument to
the binary and is represented as JSON string.

* `scrapeInterval`: Specifies how frequently network scraping is performed, in
seconds. The default value is 30 seconds.

* `turnOffScrape`: Turn off network scraping. The default is false.

* `logLevel`: Sets logging level. The default is INFO.

* `useChiselCache`: Whether to use cache for Chisel. For more details see
[Chisel](design-overview.md#Chisel) section.

### Other arguments

* `--collection-method`: Which technology to use for data gathering. Either
"ebpf" or "kernel_module".

* `--grpc-server`: GRPC server endpoint for Collector to communicate, in the
form "host:port".

* `--chisel`: Whether or not to use Chisel. Again, for more details see
[Chisel](design-overview.md#Chisel) section.

## Supported systems

## Glossary
